Let's put a little context around compliance.
If you think back to how we said that GRC goals roughly equate to organizational roles,
you'll remember that I said compliance equates to being trustworthy.
At a more micro level,
it means that we're doing the things that we should be doing as a company,
that we're following through on our obligations.
Because of that, there tends to be
a legal connotation surrounding the practice of compliance,
and many of our obligations do stem from law or regulation.
But obligations don't have to be legal obligations.
They don't always originate fear of the law.
Our obligations do however,
tie directly back to security controls.
We meet our obligations via controls.
Finally, I said that compliance functions tend to be less flexible.
What I mean by that is that compliance is mostly a binary function.
You either align with compliance obligations or you don't,
with a few caveats.
Now, where did security compliance come from?
Much earlier in this course,
we talked about poor business practices, fraud,
and failure, combining to give life to what we described as operational GRC.
If you recall, we start to see
operational GRC practices in earnest over the last 30 years or so.
There are two other forces that are starting to emerge at the same time.
One of those forces is technology acting as a business driver.
Business is really just beginning
the early stages of their Cloud journeys and digital transformation.
The second force is security as a technology enabler.
Maybe more accurately, the disabling of bad actors.
Because technology becomes integral to business,
bad actors flock to technology as a primary attack vector.
Security then becomes necessary to protect technology,
ensuring operations, avoiding breaches, and avoiding fraud.
This becomes the root of security compliance.
Security, as we've said,
is a collection of processes and technologies designed to protect the confidentiality,
integrity, and availability of technology and data.
Of course, the force of security is really a push to expand protections or
controls to all areas of the business which are now supported by technology.
It's a fairly straightforward concept.
Security protects technology or data and technology enables business.
Therefore, as business grows and technology grows,
so must our security implementation.
There's a recognition about security becoming a necessary element of business operations,
and these forces begin to bleed into regulation.
You really start to see the impact of that at the turn of the century.
Here's an example. Now, we touched on Sarbanes-Oxley earlier.
To remind you, Sarbanes-Oxley is US legislation passed in 2002.
It's indirect response to corporate fraud from the late '90s to the early 2000s.
I want us to look just a little closer at two specific sections of that act.
The first section is Section 302.
This section holds senior officers and
public companies accountable for ensuring financial statements are accurate.
Now, let's talk about Section 404.
Section 404 relates to internal controls and management assessment of those controls.
In large financial institutions,
in order to certify accuracy of financial information and verify internal controls,
what do you think that means?
What does that mean today?
We're really going to have to look at the technology that supports the business.
Ultimately, if we want to ensure the integrity of the data,
that means ensuring that security controls are in place and functioning as expected.
So today, Section 404 operates as
an IT and security control assessment for banks and public companies.
If you want to be compliant,
you must comply with those standards.
The goal, of course,
is to create security standards that organizations
must comply with to protect the common good.
If large organizations or banks are failing because of fraud or security failure,
it might hurt lots of individuals.
It's not just large public companies or the financial sector,
believe it or not,
other industries have also figured out that forcing
organizations to comply with some minimal standard reduces risk.
So practically speaking, no company and
no industry is immune from understanding and dealing with security compliance.
This is where compliance comes from.